# poemMeetsPoet

## Please click the link below to be directed to the final project presentation ##

https://alphaam.github.io/poemMeetsPoet/

## Code for project ##
[Code1](https://colab.research.google.com/drive/1n4JtmtGKEb2t6wkI5whDmxhlT9Hcjxdj?usp=sharing)
[Code 2](https://colab.research.google.com/drive/1SG6vruLctLtLz-rX5omv5SAd4xWxRlEp?usp=sharing)
[Code 3](https://colab.research.google.com/drive/1bbil84kThGtas96THX-9s7Y7KrIEh_Rm?usp=sharing)

## Link to code for the website ##

Github repo: https://github.com/Alphaam/poemMeetsPoet

 ##  The conceptual background for the work  ##
The aim of this final project is to combine the works of different poets to be able to produce something that that has all their individual voices coming through while still remaining coherent and the blending of these voices appearing seamless. In the past I have attempted to do this but found that no matter what I did the algorithm would output lines that were so distinct from each other, not only in terms of voice but metaphor, subject matter etc. that the coherence was just not present. In my most recent project I used the Markov chain generator to try and blend the works of two artists using very little input text for the algorithm to train on. The output was beautiful and accomplished all that I had set out to do which made me think there was still hope to accomplish my goal of having several artists’ works blended in a seamless and coherent way that would require little to no editing of the generated output from me.
Sadly, whenever I increased the number of artists in the training text, the original problem would come up again. I then thought of using the text generated by Markov chain generator to produce more text in the Markov chain generator to see if I could iron out the sharp contrasts in the output. After around my 17th try I found that the output was doing exactly what I wanted it to. The output was coming closer and closer to a seamless mesh of these voices. However, I found the output to lack the randomness that I wanted in my work so I then decided to use the output generated in the Markov chain generator from it’s 37th training to train GPT-2. The output was perfect. I did not have to manually edit anything about the generated text; it was coherent, random enough in its structure, presented all the voices of the artists and, most surprisingly, sustained metaphors. I am very pleased with the results.


## The evolution of the work over time and the reasons for its formal qualities ##

After I had gathered my output text from GPT-2 I then went on to plan how to present the work. Initially I had thought of presenting the work as an experiment to determine how the merging of text with other media(photos and music) affected the experience of the text.
The hardship I faced with this is how to establish a link between the other media with the text i.e. how to pick music and pictures that were contextually relevant to the text. I solved this by thinking about the overarching themes of the produced poems followed by looking for photos that reflected that theme. I found the overarching themes to be Love, Youth, New York, and Survival. I needed all this work to be connected to further the theme of the entire project which is trying to create coherency and consistency. I therefore set out to look for a singular source for these images that had a consistent editorial style that also had work that fit all these themes. I decided on the work of my friend [Markus Abeler](https://www.instagram.com/abelerphotos/) and selected the pictures that best captured the emotions of the poems. I then selected ambient music that captured the tones of the poems as well.
Another hardship I faced was how to make text the focus of the piece with so much going on. For this, I used this week’s assignment in text on image generation to experiment and figure this out. In this assignment I played around with positioning of the text on the image and I found that the positioning, at least as I perceived these finished works, is the determinant factor. The more the of the image that text obscures and how disruptive it is to the image (if it is at the center) the more the focus is shifted to the text. I then proceeded to implement this in my website where text is at the center of the image while still allowing some parts of the image to show through to sustain the complimentary effect I was aiming to create with the merging of these media.

Overall I am very pleased with how my project turned out.






